How to play

Welcome the Paths game engine!

To play a game, simply proceed to the main menu, and select open file to select a story
to play. You can also choose a story from one of our pre-made ones.

After you have selected a story, you will be sent to the player select menu. Here you
can eiter create your own player, or select the default player for quick start.

On the right side of the screen, there is a goal menu. Here you can set custom goals
for your story. Reaching all goals will complete, end the game. Goals are not nessesary
to start a game. Once all settings are set, you can press start game.

Once you are in a game, you will be presented by a main window, bottom-bar, and a sidebar.
The main window will display the current passage information, and sometimes illustrations.

The bottom-bar contains actions you, the player, can choose between. These choices will take you
to different parts in the story.

The sidebar contains your inventory and set goals. This is so that you will be able to keep
track of your progress through the game.

If you want to save your game mid-gameplay, you can press the diskette icon in the top right corner.
(Saving is not supported for .Gpaths files)

To exit or restart a game you can press the pause icon in the top right corner to get a pause-menu
where you are presented with these options.


How to create your own story file:

Paths file:
To create your own Paths file, you only need a basic text editor.

The file follows a simple pattern:

Game title               |  Haunted House
Passage title            |  ::Beginnings
Passage content          |  You are in a small, dimly lit room. There is a door in front of you.
Link title and reference |  [Try to open the door](Another room)
Passage title            |  ::Another room
Passage content          |  The door opens to another room. You see a desk with a large, dusty book.
link (Action)            |  [Open the book](The book of spells);InventoryAction;SpellBook;
Link title and reference |  [Go back](Beginnings)


Game title is the title of your story and should be written once in the very first line.
This can not be empty.

The following must be written in the order they are written in:

Passage title is the title of the room in which the player is currently in. It should
always start with "::". A passage title can not be empty.

Passage content should tell the player something that is happening in the current room.
The passage content should not be empty.

Link title is one of the choices the player gets in a passage. It should be written in
clam brackets "[Link title]"
Link reference should be the name of an existing room within the story. When a link is selected, it should redirect
the player to a new passage. The reference should be written in parentheses "(Passage title)"
Links can be empty, and you can add as many as you like. Link titles can not be empty if you have a reference
and vice versa. If you decide to have no links, delete the rows. Do not leave empty clams.

Lastly actions. Actions consists of an action type, and value.
All action types:
GoldAction       (Number value)
HealthAction     (Number value)
ScoreAction      (Number value)
InventoryAction  ( Text value )

The actions should be written after the link reference because they will happen when link is pressed.
Actions are separated by semicolons like this:
;GoldAction;100; (Will give the player 100 gold)
;HealthAction;-2; (Will take two lives from the player)
;InventoryAction;Sword; (Will give the player a sword)
Actions can be empty.

Gpaths file:
The Gpaths format is quite a bit different from normal paths files.
Gpaths are archives containing a normal paths file, music pack and images.

This format is quite sensitive and requires precision. The file should be structured like this:

\-> (file)    story.paths
    (file)    music.mp3
    (folder)  Images
        \-> Passage1.png
            Passage2.png
            Passage3.png
            ...

Your path file must be named "story.paths", and music file "music.mp3" and image folder "Images"
The images themselves should be named to the passage title corresponding to the room in which
the player is in. So if a room title is "Hall way", the file should be named: "Hall way.png".
Images are not required, and you do not need an image for every room.

When all files are ready, pack the files to the root of a zip file and rename the extension to ".Gpaths"
Your game should now be able to run.